[Music]
hey you know that piece of paper they
give you at the airport
it gets scanned and then you toss it in
the trash yeah boring passes oops I mean
boarding passes there are plenty of
reasons why you might want to hang on to
that thing for your next trip number one
it's more vulnerable than you think most
of us tend to cling to that pass up to
the boarding gate once we get seated it
might get put in the side pockets of
your carry-on that seat pocket in front
of you or even used as a bookmark for
the in-flight magazine that's when your
personal information can get exposed
like your number two full name before
anything else who wants complete
strangers knowing their name your name
can be tagged to carry out all kinds of
deeds without you knowing it or if they
might just look you up on social media
and find your pictures and details there
shouldn't your name be the most secured
piece of personal information certainly
no transaction fraudulent or not can't
be completed without putting a name to
it similarly there's your number three
passenger name record once you present
your e-ticket which includes that sixth
digit passenger name record or PNR
that's all it takes to print the
boarding pass unfortunately only 2% of
travellers opt for the mobile boarding
pass that means the remaining 98% are
potentially exposed with those printed
out ones which group are you in number
four ticket number to do anything
involving your confirmed flight booking
all it takes is to know your full name
combined with the passenger name record
or your ticket number hey someone can
use those details to cancel your booking
number five your flight carrier and
number you might think there's nothing
to keep confidential with the airline
you're flying through but a scammer also
needs to know the airline when they try
to cancel your flight and what can that
lead to number six an open door for
scammers your trip has come to an end
and your
flying back home the next day when you
attempt to do an online chicken you get
a message saying that your flight
reservation has been cancelled and in a
snap a scammer contacts you offering
help right now you're aware that your
airline login has been compromised and
it's too late
number seven travel itinerary you may
not be a celebrity or a billionaire CEO
jetting across the world but what if
someone is tracking your movements for
some sinister reason they might be
planning to burglarize your home or even
worse they may want to pry into your
private life number eight
barcode the boarding pass barcode is
normally at the bottom right side
posting it along with all the other
personal details there on social media
is all it takes for your private
information to be exposed even if you're
super excited about this trip never post
any pictures of a boarding pass on line
9 your contact details this one will
really give you the heebie-jeebies your
home address email contact phone number
it's all in the barcode now your
physical safety could be at risk need
more convincing that your boarding pass
is full of incredibly personal
information well how about your number
10 financial details ever heard of
someone paying cash for a plane ticket
yeah most people nowadays use a credit
or debit card sorry but all your payment
information is in that barcode to
whoever has your debit or credit card
information can even make new purchases
using these details nope they don't
necessarily need your physical card
number 11 identity theft
at this point your identity is now at
risk
that means someone can carry out a whole
slew of transactions or purchases using
your name and other personal information
and the risk only goes up because
identity theft isn't merely borrowing
someone else's name because it sounds
cooler than yours it can translate to
major financial theft and
number twelve the downside of the web in
case you're thinking I wouldn't be so
careless
to leave my boarding pass in a public
trashcan or in the airplane seat pocket
don't forget how risky online stuff is -
in july 2019 a popular check-in software
used by more than 500 airlines
encountered a major security issue
people's boarding passes were getting
downloaded by strangers while this issue
was fixed immediately it only serves as
proof of how careful you need to be with
this seemingly simple little document
number 13 claiming compensation one
flight compensation company reported
that less than 2% of travelers claim for
money due them because of major flight
delays over booking or cancellations
once you're aware of the airline's terms
and conditions you can then apply for
compensation and your boarding pass is
the first document you'll need don't
miss out on this financial reimbursement
if you're entitled to it
number 14 tax records if you travel for
work your trips could be tax-deductible
you'll need proof that you've physically
got on a plane and flew from A to B and
a boarding pass is exactly that it might
not be enough just to show a receipt of
when you paid for the ticket also if you
work and pay taxes abroad your home
country's tax authority might ask for
proof of your absence from the country
as well 15 accessing the airlines
website with your name and passenger
name record anyone can access the
airlines website they can change
practically anything in your flight
booking or just cancel it altogether if
they're feeling especially malicious
sure it might be easy to rebook but
don't forget that a lot of carriers will
charge you for cancelling or changing
anything at the last minute and what can
they change huh glad you asked number 16
your flight seat now we all have our
seat preferences I know it's not the
most serious thing in the world if
you're pre-selected window seat at the
front of the plane
has subtly been replaced with an aisle
seat back by the bathrobes that flights
gonna stank or maybe the other way
around
me I'd gladly take that happy comfy
middle seat oops I'm sorry I think I
just had a hallucination that I prefer
the middle seat weird anyway what do you
desire aisle or window let me know down
in the comments anyway a more troubling
offense would be if your business class
ticket has now been downgraded to
economy could buy legroom and the extra
money I paid to have it number seventeen
in-flight meal preference with meals it
can be a lot more dire
you might pre select your food on the
plane for personal lifestyle choices
like veganism or for medical reasons
like food intolerances and allergies
unauthorized changes to your meal
preferences are more than just mere
inconveniences number 18 your frequent
flyer rewards most travellers join
frequent flyer programs because it
doesn't cost anything
instead you continue to earn points as
you subject yourself to jet lag
questionable airplane food and countless
awkward security Pat doubts
hey you earn those rewards so all that
time and money you put into getting them
should be secure you're the only one it
should be redeeming your hard-earned
frequent flyer rewards so they're number
19 forgot password you think you're safe
with all your login accounts when
someone clicks forgot password they
usually send the reset password to your
email oh yeah this boarding pass bandit
has already gotten access to that as
well
number 20 that code sharing practice
code sharing is a really common practice
when partner airlines sell seats on each
other's flights it's convenient for
passengers but it can also be a risk
your passenger name record can also be
used to log in to the websites of the
other code sharing airline partners
anyone with criminal intent can ride on
that PNR multiple times increasing the
chances of fraudulent transactions
number 21 boarding pass privileges when
a global airline showcases its boarding
pass privileges as a marketing trick to
get discounts and freebies at retail
stores it's a great deal sure but that
just means your boarding pass is getting
exposed to all those places if you're
putting your information out there and
letting it spread all around the risk of
something personal falling into the
wrong hands only gets higher and higher
22 privacy invasion if your trip is
confidential and sensitive then an
exposed boarding pass is exactly what
you don't want I'm not saying you have
to be a secret agent or anything but
sometimes we just don't want people to
know where we're headed
how long we'll be there and what we'll
be doing there
a high one ticket to the annual belieber
conference in Toronto please
okay jokes aside this kind of privacy
intrusion could set you up for number 23
hypothetical risks if the wrong person
got hold of information that you or the
whole family will be on vacation in
another city or country for the next two
weeks then it could spell real trouble
this person might decide that this will
be the perfect opportunity to break into
your home steal your car from the
airport or even your garage or maybe
just go to your house and kick over your
garden gnomes
bottom line take a pass on playing
boarding pass roulette you have too much
to lose hey if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life